---
date: 2005-01-31 18:18:00
type: post
title_en: 2005-01-31-movz-filename-and-quanlity
title: MovZ：文件名看质量
wordpress_id: 104
tags:
- life
---

有很多网友问及文件名各部分是什么意思，以及质量如何。也看见有网友发表关于  
电影发布版本术语的解释，尚有不确切的地方。比如PROPER并不代表质量完美，TS  
或Telesync并非指从放影机转制。其实Telesync和CAM都是用digital camera或  
camcorder在影院录制（俗称枪版），质量起伏很大。  
  
下面是从VCDQuality.com转摘的关于这些术语的解释。中英文对照，因为错误总是  
难免的。  
来源：huaye@TLF  
  
CAM -  
A cam is a theater rip usually done with a digital video camera. A mini  
tripod is sometimes used, but a lot of the time this wont be possible,  
so the camera make shake. Also seating placement isn’t always idle, and  
it might be filmed from an angle. If cropped properly, this is hard to  
tell unless there’s text on the screen, but a lot of times these are  
left with triangular borders on the top and bottom of the screen. Sound  
is taken from the onboard microphone of the camera, and especially in  
comedies, laughter can often be heard during the film. Due to these  
factors picture and sound quality are usually quite poor, but sometimes  
we’re lucky, and the theater will be fairly empty and a fairly clear  
signal will be heard.  
  
CAM通常是用数码摄像机从电影院盗录。有时会使用小三角架，但大多数时候不可  
能使用，所以摄像机会抖动。同时由于放摄像机的座位并非总是空的，使得有时拍  
摄不是水平的。如果后期剪裁很好，这很难看出，除非屏幕下方有字幕。由于声音  
是从摄像机自带的话筒录制，所以经常会录到观众的笑声等声音，尤其是喜剧片。  
因为这些因素，图象和声音质量通常都很差。但有时很幸运电影院相当空，这样会  
录到好一些的声音。  
  
TELESYNC (TS) -  
A telesync is the same spec as a CAM except it uses an external audio  
source (most likely an audio jack in the chair for hard of hearing  
people). A direct audio source does not ensure a good quality audio  
source, as a lot of background noise can interfere. A lot of the times a  
telesync is filmed in an empty cinema or from the projection booth with  
a professional camera, giving a better picture quality. Quality ranges  
drastically, check the sample before downloading the full release. A  
high percentage of Telesyncs are CAMs that have been mislabeled.  
  
除了使用外置的音源（一般是影院座椅上为听力不好的人设的耳机孔），  
TELESYSNC(TS) 和CAM的标准是相同的。这个直接的音源并不能保证是好的音源，  
这是它因为受到很多背景噪音的干扰。很多时候TS是在空的影院录制，或是用专业  
摄像机在投影室录制，所以图象质量可能比CAM好。质量的起伏可能很大，在下载  
前最好查看SAMPLE。很大比例的TS是从CAM错误标记成。  
  
TELECINE (TC) -  
A telecine machine copies the film digitally from the reels. Sound and  
picture should be very good, but due to the equipment involved and cost  
telecines are fairly uncommon. Generally the film will be in correct  
aspect ratio, although 4:3 telecines have existed. A great example is  
the JURASSIC PARK 3 TC done last year. TC should not be confused with  
TimeCode , which is a visible counter on screen throughout the film.  
  
TELECINE (TC)使用电视电影机从胶片直接数字拷贝，其图象和声音质量应该很  
好。但由于使用的设备和费用很高，TC很少见。通常会使用正确的高宽比，但有时  
也有4:3的 TC。去年的侏罗纪公园III是一个很好的例子。不应将TC和TimeCode(时  
间码)混淆，时间码是一个在屏幕上可见的计数器。  
  
SCREENER (SCR) -  
A pre VHS tape, sent to rental stores, and various other places for  
promotional use. A screener is supplied on a VHS tape, and is usually in  
a 4:3 (full screen) a/r, although letterboxed screeners are sometimes  
found. The main draw back is a “ticker” (a message that scrolls past at  
the bottom of the screen, with the copyright and anti-copy telephone  
number). Also, if the tape contains any serial numbers, or any other  
markings that could lead to the source of the tape, these will have to  
be blocked, usually with a black mark over the section. This is  
sometimes only for a few seconds, but unfortunately on some copies this  
will last for the entire film, and some can be quite big. Depending on  
the equipment used, screener quality can range from excellent if done  
from a MASTER copy, to very poor if done on an old VHS recorder thru  
poor capture equipment on a copied tape. Most screeners are tran**erred  
to VCD, but a few attempts at SVCD have occurred, some looking better  
than others.  
  
SCREENER(SCR)是在电影发行VHS录象带之前送到录象出租店及其他地方用做促销目  
的。SCREENER使用VHS录象带，通常使用4:3（全屏）的高宽比，但有时也会有  
LETTERBOXED(1.85:1宽银幕) SCREENER. 主要的缺点是有“TICKER”（在屏幕下方滚  
动的消息，包含版权和反盗版电话号码）。同时，如果录象带包含任何序列号或可  
以导致查出录象带来源的记号，这些记号必须被遮掉，通常使用一个黑斑遮住上述  
部位。有时这些记号只出现几秒钟，有时也可能不幸在怎个电影中出现，而且有时  
会很大。根据使用的设备，SCREENER的质量可能是极好，如果是从原版拷贝；也可  
能很差，如果是从翻录的拷贝录制，同时又使用很烂的捕捉设备和录象机。大多数  
的SCREENER被转制成VCD，现在也出现了SVCD；有些看起来比另一些好。  
  
DVD-SCREENER (DVDscr) -  
Same premise as a screener, but tran**erred off a DVD. Usually letterbox  
, but without the extras that a DVD retail would contain. The ticker is  
not usually in the black bars, and will disrupt the viewing. If the  
ripper has any skill, a DVDscr should be very good. Usually tran**erred  
to SVCD or DivX/XviD.  
  
DVD-SCREENER(DVDscr)和SCREENER相似，但是从DVD转制。通常是1.85:1宽银幕，  
但是不包括零售版会有的花絮。TICKER经常不在黑边里，所以会影响观看。如果转  
制者稍有技术，DVDScr应该很好。通常被转制成SVCD或DivX/XviD。  
  
DVDRip -  
A copy of the final released DVD. If possible this is released PRE  
retail (for example, Star Wars episode 2) again, should be excellent  
quality. DVDrips are released in SVCD and DivX/XviD.  
  
DVDRip是从最终版的DVD转制。如果可能，应该是使用预售版（比如，星球大战  
2）。质量应该很好。通常被发布成SVCD或DivX/XviD  
  
VHSRip -  
Tran**erred off a retail VHS, mainly skating/sports videos and XXX releases.  
  
VHSRip是从零售版VHS录象带转制，主要是滑冰/体育内容和XXX发布。  
  
TVRip -  
TV episode that is either from Network (capped using digital  
cable/satellite boxes are preferable) or PRE-AIR from satellite feeds  
sending the program around to networks a few days earlier (do not  
contain “dogs” but sometimes have flickers etc) Some programs such as  
WWF Raw Is War contain extra parts, and the “dark matches” and  
camera/commentary tests are included on the rips. PDTV is capped from a  
digital TV PCI card, generally giving the best results, and groups tend  
to release in SVCD for these. VCD/SVCD/DivX/XviD rips are all supported  
by the TV scene.  
  
从电视（最好是从数码有线电视/卫星电视捕捉）转制的电视剧，或接收由卫星提  
前几天向电视网传送的预播节目（不包含加密但有时有雪花）。有些节目，比如  
WWF RAW IS WAR包含多余的部分；”DARK MATCHES”和CAMERA/COMMENTARY测试被包  
含在TVRip里。PDTV是从PCI数码电视卡捕捉，通常效果最好；破解组织倾向于使用  
SVCD来发布。VCD/SVCD/DivX/XviD rips也都被用于发布TVRip。  
  
WORKPRINT (WP) -  
A workprint is a copy of the film that has not been finished. It can be  
missing scenes, music, and quality can range from excellent to very  
poor. Some WPs are very different from the final print (Men In Black is  
missing all the aliens, and has actors in their places) and others can  
contain extra scenes (Jay and Silent Bob) . WPs can be nice additions to  
the collection once a good quality final has been obtained.  
  
WORKPRITN(WP)是从未完成的电影拷贝转制而成，可能会缺失镜头和音乐。质量可  
能从最好到很差。有些WP可能和最终版本相差很远。(MEN IN BLACK的WP丢失了所  
有的外星人，代之以演员)；另一些则包括多余的镜头(Jay and Silent Bob). WPs  
可以作为有了好质量的最终版本后的附加收藏。  
  
DivX Re-Enc -  
A DivX re-enc is a film that has been taken from its original VCD  
source, and re-encoded into a small DivX file. Most commonly found on  
file sharers, these are usually labeled something like  
Film.Name.Group(1of2) etc. Common groups are SMR and TND. These aren’t  
really worth downloading, unless you’re that unsure about a film u only  
want a 200mb copy of it. Generally avoid.  
  
DivXRe-Enc是从原始VCD发布用DivX编码成的小一些的文件。通常可在文件共享网  
络找到。它们通常以Film.Name.Group (1of2)等形式命名。常见的发布组织有SMR  
和TND。这些版本通常不值得下载，除非你不清楚某部电影，只想要200MB的版本。  
一般应避免。  
  
Watermarks -  
A lot of films come from Asian Silvers/PDVD (see below) and these are  
tagged by the people responsible. Usually with a letter/initials or a  
little logo, generally in one of the corners. Most famous are the “Z”  
“A” and “Globe” watermarks.  
  
很多从Asian Silvers/PDVD (参看下面)来的电影带有制作人的标记。通常是一个  
字母，名字缩写或图标，位于屏幕一角。最有名的是”Z”,”A”和”Globe”.  
  
Asian Silvers / PDVD -  
These are films put out by eastern bootleggers, and these are usually  
bought by some groups to put out as their own. Silvers are very cheap  
and easily available in a lot of countries, and its easy to put out a  
release, which is why there are so many in the scene at the moment,  
mainly from smaller groups who don’t last more than a few releases.  
PDVDs are the same thing pressed onto a DVD. They have removable  
subtitles, and the quality is usually better than the silvers. These are  
ripped like a normal DVD, but usually released as VCD.  
  
Asian Silvers / PDVD是亚洲盗版商发行影片的，通常被一些发布组织购买来当做  
他们自己的发布。Silvers很便宜，在很多国家都很容易找到。发布Silvers很容  
易，所以现在有很多发布，主要是由一些小的组织发布；这些组织通常发布几个  
RELEASE后就不见了。PDVD和Silver一样，不过是压在DVD上。 PDVD通常有外挂字  
幕，质量也比Silver好。PDVD象普通的DVD一样转制，但通常用VCD的格式发布。  
  
Scene Tags（发布文件的标志）  
PROPER -  
Due to scene rules, whoever releases the first Telesync has won that  
race (for example). But if the quality of that release is fairly poor,  
if another group has another telesync (or the same source in higher  
quality) then the tag PROPER is added to the folder to avoid being  
duped. PROPER is the most subjective tag in the scene, and a lot of  
people will generally argue whether the PROPER is better than the  
original release. A lot of groups release PROPERS just out of  
desperation due to losing the race. A reason for the PROPER should  
always be included in the NFO.  
  
根据发布规则，最先发布Telesync (TS)的组织赢得(TS发布的)比赛。但是，如果  
这个发布版本质量很差，同时另一组织有另一TS版本(或质量更好的同一片源)，那  
么标记PROPER被加到目录上以避免重复。PROPER是一个最主观的标记，很多人会争  
论是否PROPER比原始发布版本好。很多发布组织只不过因为输掉了发布比赛而发布  
PROPER。发布PROPER的原因因该总是包含在NFO文件里。  
  
SUBBED -  
In the case of a VCD, if a release is subbed, it usually means it has  
hard encoded subtitles burnt throughout the movie. These are generally  
in malaysian/chinese/thai etc, and sometimes there are two different  
languages, which can take up quite a large amount of the screen. SVCD  
supports switch able subtitles, so some DVDRips are released with switch  
able subs. This will be mentioned in the NFO file if included.  
  
对于VCD发布而言，SUBBED通常表示字幕被压进了电影。它们通常是马来语/中文/  
泰文等，有时有两种语言。它们可能占据了很大一部分屏幕。SVCD支持外挂字幕，  
所以DVDRip用外挂字幕发布。这些信息可以在NFO文件中找到。  
  
UNSUBBED -  
When a film has had a subbed release in the past, an Unsubbed release  
may be released  
  
当一部电影曾经发布过有字幕的SUBBED版本，没字幕的UNSUBBED版本也可能发布。  
  
LIMITED -  
A limited movie means it has had a limited theater run, generally  
opening in less than 250 theaters, generally smaller films (such as art  
house films) are released as limited.  
  
LIMITED电影指该电影只在有限的电影院放映，通常少于250家。通常较小的电影  
（比如艺术电影）的发行是LIMETED。  
  
INTERNAL -  
An internal release is done for several reasons. Classic DVD groups do a  
lot of .INTERNAL. releases, as they wont be dupe’d on it. Also lower  
quality theater rips are done INTERNAL so not to lower the reputation of  
the group, or due to the amount of rips done already. An INTERNAL  
release is available as normal on the groups affiliate sites, but they  
can’t be traded to other sites without request from the site ops. Some  
INTERNAL releases still trickle down to IRC/Newsgroups, it usually  
depends on the title and the popularity. Earlier in the year people  
referred to Centropy going “internal”. This meant the group were only  
releasing the movies to their members and site ops. This is in a  
different context to the usual definition.  
  
INTERNAL发布有几个原因。经典的DVD组织有很多.INTERNAL.发布版本，这样不会  
引起混淆。同时，低质量的发布会加以INTERNAL标记，这样不会降低发布组织的声  
誉，或由于已经发布的数量。INTERNAL发布可以正常的在组织的会员网站上获取，  
但没有其他网站管理员的要求它们不可以被交换到其他网站。一些TERNAL发布仍然  
流到IRC/NEWSGROUP，这通常取决于电影及其流行度。今年早些时候，人们把  
CENTROPY做为 INTERNAL。这表示发布组织只向其会员和网站管理员发布。这和其  
通常意思不同。  
  
STV -  
Straight To Video. Was never released in theaters, and therefore a lot  
of sites do not allow these.  
  
STV表示电影从未在电影院放映过就被发布，因此很多望网站不允许STV。  
  
ASPECT RATIO TAGS -  
These are *WS* for widescreen (letterbox) and *FS* for Fullscreen.  
  
*ws*表示宽银幕，*FS*表示全屏幕。  
  
RECODE -  
A recode is a previously released version, usually filtered through  
TMPGenc to remove subtitles, fix color etc. Whilst they can look better,  
its not looked upon highly as groups are expected to obtain their own  
sources.  
  
RECODE是以前已经发布过的版本，通常用TMPGenc编码过滤以去除字幕，纠正颜色  
等。虽然它们看起来好一些，但通常不认为这是好的行为因为发布组织应该去找他  
们自己的片源。  
  
REPACK -  
If a group releases a bad rip, they will release a Repack which will fix  
the problems.  
  
如果发布组织发布了一个坏的版本，他们会发布REPACK来解决这些问题。  
  
NUKED -  
A film can be nuked for various reasons. Individual sites will nuke for  
breaking their rules (such as “No Telesyncs”) but if the film has  
something extremely wrong with it (no soundtrack for 20mins, CD2 is  
incorrect film/game etc) then a global nuke will occur, and people  
trading it across sites will lose their credits. Nuked films can still  
reach other sources such as p2p/usenet, but its a good idea to check why  
it was nuked first in case. If a group realise there is something wrong,  
they can request a nuke.  
  
一个发布可能因为多种原因被NUKE掉。有些网站会因为违犯他们的规则而NUKE发布  
(比如不允许发布TS版本)。但如果发布的版本有很大的问题(如20 分钟没有声音，  
CD2是错误的电影或游戏)，那么所有的网站都会NUKE这个发布。在这些网站上交换  
NUKED版本的人会失掉他们的信誉。但NUKED发布仍然可以通过P2P/USENET传播，所  
以应该总是首先找到其被NUKE的原因以防万一。如果发布组织发觉他们的发布有问  
题，他们可以要求NUKE。  
  
NUKE REASONS :: this is a list of common reasons a film can be nuked for  
(generally DVDRip)  
  
常见的NUKE原因(通常是DVDRIP)：  
  
** BAD A/R ** :: bad aspect ratio, ie people appear too fat/thin  
错误的高宽比，即画面太胖或太瘦。  
** BAD IVTC ** :: bad inverse telecine. process of converting framerates  
was incorrect.  
错误的反转电视电影TC。转换祯频不对。  
** INTERLACED ** :: black lines on movement as the field order is incorrect.  
移动的黑线，由于field order不正确。  
DUPE -  
Dupe is quite simply, if something exists already, then theres no reason  
for it to exist again without proper reason.  
  
DUPE很简单。如果某个电影发布已有，那么没有合适的理由就不因该允许它的存在。
